Web Interface
=============

This section guides you through the process of utilizing Workflomics, from accessing the platform to generating and benchmarking workflows. Workflomics offers an intuitive web interface that enables users to efficiently create, compare, and optimize computational workflows for bioinformatics research.

Accessing Workflomics
---------------------

To begin exploring the capabilities of Workflomics, visit the live demo:

- **Live Demo**: `Workflomics Live Demo <http://145.38.190.48/>`_

Here, you will find a user-friendly interface designed to facilitate the generation of workflows tailored to your research needs.

Generate Workflows
------------------

Generating workflows with Workflomics involves several key steps, each designed to ensure that the workflows you create are optimally configured for your specific data analysis requirements.

### Choose Workflow Inputs and Outputs

Before generating workflows, you must specify the desired inputs and outputs. This initial step is crucial as it defines the scope and objectives of the computational task.

- **TODO**: A detailed screenshot and explanation will be added to guide you through this process.

### Specify Constraints

Constraints allow you to narrow down the search for workflows by setting specific requirements, such as computational resources, runtime, or data formats.

- **TODO**: Screenshots and further explanations will illustrate how to apply constraints effectively.

### Specify Search Parameters

Adjusting search parameters enables you to fine-tune the workflow generation process, influencing how Workflomics explores the vast space of possible workflows.

- **TODO**: Detailed explanations on setting search parameters will be provided to enhance your workflow generation strategy.

### Pick Candidate Workflows and Run Them Locally

After Workflomics has generated a list of candidate workflows, the next step is to evaluate these workflows to determine which ones best meet your research objectives. This involves selecting promising workflows based on the criteria you've set and running them on your local machine. This process allows you to assess the performance and effectiveness of each workflow with your own datasets, ensuring that you choose the most suitable option for your specific needs.

- **Selecting Workflows**: Review the list of candidate workflows generated by Workflomics. Consider factors such as the workflow's complexity, the computational resources required, and its compatibility with your data.
- **Running Locally**: Execute the selected workflows locally to test their performance. This hands-on evaluation is crucial for understanding how the workflow operates with real data and identifying any necessary adjustments.

For detailed instructions on how to benchmark workflows locally, including setting up your environment and running the benchmarking tool, please refer to the dedicated section in our documentation:

- **Benchmarking Workflows Locally**: See the `Workflomics Benchmarker <https://workflomics.readthedocs.io/en/latest/benchmarker.html/>`_ for comprehensive guidelines on local benchmarking practices. This document provides step-by-step instructions to help you effectively evaluate the candidate workflows on your system.

This step is essential for ensuring that the workflows you choose are not only theoretically sound but also practically viable for your research projects.

Upload Benchmark Results
------------------------

After executing and analyzing the workflows, uploading the benchmark results to Workflomics not only facilitates the comparison of efficiency and effectiveness across different workflow configurations but also unlocks the potential for visual analytics. This step is pivotal in harnessing the collective intelligence of the Workflomics community to refine and enhance bioinformatics workflows.

### Steps for Uploading Benchmark Results

1. **Navigate to the Upload Interface**: Access the Workflomics upload page dedicated to benchmark results at `Workflomics Benchmarks Upload <http://145.38.190.48/benchmarks>`_. This platform is designed to be intuitive, ensuring a seamless upload process.

2. **Prepare Your Benchmark Data**: Ensure your `workflow-benchmarks.json` file is ready for upload. This file should contain all relevant data from your benchmarking session.

3. **Upload and Visualize**: Follow the on-screen instructions to upload your benchmark results. Upon successful upload, you will gain access to Workflomics' advanced visualization tools, enabling you to analyze and interpret your data in a highly interactive and insightful manner.

- **TODO**: A detailed guide along with screenshots will be provided to walk you through the upload process, ensuring you can easily share and visualize your benchmark results.

Conclusion
----------

Leveraging Workflomics to its fullest extends far beyond merely generating and running workflows. By actively participating in the benchmarking and results-sharing process, you contribute to a broader endeavor aimed at optimizing bioinformatics workflows. This collective effort not only accelerates scientific discovery but also promotes the reproducibility and robustness of research findings.

The forthcoming additions of detailed guides and visual aids will further empower you to navigate through each phase of the workflow generation, benchmarking, and results analysis process with ease. Stay engaged with the Workflomics community to enhance your research capabilities and contribute to the advancement of bioinformatics.

Remember, your insights and contributions are invaluable in building a repository of knowledge that benefits the entire field of bioinformatics, driving forward the quest for scientific excellence and innovation.
